Create report handling manual in CoC (#3)
the-turing-way/.github: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

with any additional questions to help them reach a resolution and must note feedback for the record.

Mediating interaction or communication between reporter and reportee 
is not in the scope of this Code of Conduct.

### 4.2 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct

An internal resolution will be agreed upon using the Enforcement Manual, 
taking the following two objectives into account:
1. provide support for the reporter and the person(s) harmed, and
2. plan the continued participation of the reportee as per the Enforcement Manual.

Due to the severity of the incident reports that go beyond norm-setting in *The Turing Way*, an appropriate 
(external) authority such as the reportee's employee/line manager will be identified
who can respond to the incident report with the appropriate action.
The report will be passed to the identified authority with an agreement to receive an update from their enforcement process.

The resolution or decision made by the external authority may or may not have an impact on the internal resolution.

A transparency report will be drafted by the committee and shared with the community where appropriate.

> ### 4.3 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct and the reportee is an employee of the Turing

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.3 If the report is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct and the reportee is an employee of the Turing
```

The Code of Conduct should be considered a norm-setting mechanism for all community members, including the Turing employees.
For all incident reports that are considered beyond the scope of this Code of Conduct, **the Turing Institute's employment policies will apply**.

The committee will **escalate the issue to Kirstie Whitaker** (if not already involved), 

> who is ** project lead and Director of the Tools, Practices and Systems Research Programme at the Turing.

Author: ```suggestion
who is the project lead and Director of the Tools, Practices and Systems Research Programme at the Turing.
```

If you believe someone is in physical danger, please contact the appropriate emergency responders.

## 3.4 Report handling 

> A detailed report handling policy is available in the Report Handling Manual.

Author: ```suggestion
A detailed report handling policy is available in the Report Handling Manual in section 4.
```

## 3.5 Code of Conduct Enforcement

> A detailed enforcement policy is available in the Enforcement Manual.

Author: ```suggestion
A detailed enforcement policy is available in the Enforcement Manual in section 5.
```

## 3.6 Terminology Used in Report Handling and Enforcement Manuals

* Reporter: Person reporting an incident.
* Reportee: Person being reported.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## 3.7 Scope of this Code of Conduct

This Code of Conduct applies to all online and in-person events, and meetings conducted in *The Turing Way* community spaces (online/in-person), as well as all text-based synchronous and asynchronous interactions as described below.

- The Turing Way organised meetings, such as Collaboration Cafés, Book Dashes, Fireside Chats, community calls,  project meetings (both openly hosted meetings for the community and closed meetings for the team only),  and similar events. 
- The Turing Way team and community leaders such as a sub-project or Working Group member, who attend an event or community spaces while representing The Turing Way.
- Community members who take formal roles in *The Turing Way*, internships or in formal mentorship roles such as through Outreachy, Google Summer of Code, Google Season of Doc and similar time-bound activities.
- Communication and community engagement platforms, such as project repositories on GitHub (issues, PRs or other contributions), Slack Workspace and workshops or training events, and social media platforms such as X/Twitter, Mastodon and LinkedIn.

For events where *The Turing Way* is not the main organiser and if a separate Code of Conduct applies, it will be stated clearly.
```

## 4 Report Handling Manual

After receiving a report, the committee will review the incident report and follow the policies 
described in this Report Handling Manual.

> The committee will determine the cause and consequences that violated this Code of Conduct and take further actions.

Reviewer: _the cause and consequences that violated_ reads slightly strange to me, is this meant to indicate a difference between immediate cause (e.g. "consequences") & "root cause" somehow?

Author: Good point. Let me rephrase that.

Author: Made changes.

> The committee will determine the cause and consequences that violated this Code of Conduct and take further actions.

Author: ```suggestion
Using the report handling and enforcement process described in this document, the committee will handle the Code of Conduct and take further actions.
```

> ### 4.1 If the breach is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct

Reviewer: This might be nitpicky, but "breach" here somewhat pre-supposes that the reported incident was a breach? But I guess a report can be within scope but ultimately "not a breach"?

Reviewer: And I'm not sure if I missed it somewhere, but I could not find a description of what would be considered within/outside the scope of the CoC?

Author: Let me rephrase to make it clear that this section applies only if a breach has been identified and is also considered severe enough to escalate.

There is no scope section, and i agree that there should be. That's one of my original ask for this PR. Your response is definitely nudging to having an explicit scope section.

Author: I have added a scope section.

> ### 4.1 If the breach is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.1 If the breach has been identified and is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct
```

> ### 4.1 If the breach has been identified and is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.1 If the report is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct
```

> ### 4.1 If the breach has been identified and is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.1 If the Report is considered within the scope of this Code of Conduct
```

The committee will reach out to the reporter to ask for further information if the 
the submitted report is not complete or needs some additional context.
The committee will also ensure that the person impacted or harmed by the incident report
is safe and identifies how they can be further supported.

> **4.1.1** When the committee decides to meet the reporter, these questions will be used to guide the meeting:

Author: ```suggestion
**4.1.1** When the committee decides to meet the reportee, these questions will be used to guide the meeting:
```

- What happened?
- What were you thinking at the time?
- Who has been affected by what you have done? In what way?
- What do you think you need to do to make things right?
- Knowing what you know, what would you have done differently?

**4.1.2** When the incident in question inflicted harm on another person, additional 
questions will be asked on behalf of the person(s) harmed:
- What did you think when you realized what had happened?
- What impact has this incident had on you and others?
- What has been the hardest thing for you?
- What do you think needs to happen to make things right?

The committee may follow up with reportee or reporter after this discussion 
with any additional questions to help them reach a resolution and must note feedback for the record.

Mediating interaction or communication between reporter and reportee 
is not in the scope of this Code of Conduct.

> ### 4.2 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct

Reviewer: I was about to post the same comment on using "breach" here, but now, after reading this section it makes me wonder if the goal of the "report handling manual" is to cover these cases where "we find there was no breach of the CoC"?

Author: True. That can make it a bit more open to the fact that not all reports will be about breach of CoC.

> ### 4.2 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.2 If a breach has been identified within the scope of this Code of Conduct
```

> The Code of Conduct should be considered a norm-setting mechanism for all community members, including the Turing employees.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The Code of Conduct committee will assess if the report is outside the scope of *The Turing Way* Code of Conduct enforcement process.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The Code of Conduct committee will assess if the report is outside the scope of *The Turing Way* Code of Conduct enforcement process.

An internal resolution will be agreed upon using the Enforcement Manual, 
taking the following two objectives into account:
1. provide support for the reporter and the person(s) harmed, and
2. plan the continued participation of the reportee as per the Enforcement Manual.

Due to the severity of the incident reports that go beyond norm-setting in *The Turing Way*, an appropriate 
(external) authority such as the reportee's employee/line manager will be identified
who can respond to the incident report with the appropriate action.
The report will be passed to the identified authority with an agreement to receive an update from their enforcement process.

The resolution or decision made by the external authority may or may not have an impact on the internal resolution.

A transparency report will be drafted by the committee and shared with the community where appropriate.

> ### 4.3 If the reportee is an employee of the Turing 

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.3 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct and the reportee is an employee of the Turing

The Code of Conduct should be considered a norm-setting mechanism for all community members, including the Turing employees.

```

The Code of Conduct should be considered a norm-setting mechanism for all community members, including the Turing employees.
For all incident reports that are considered beyond the scope of this Code of Conduct, **the Turing Institute's employment policies will apply**.

The committee will **escalate the issue to Kirstie Whitaker** (if not already involved), 
who is ** project lead and Director of the Tools, Practices and Systems Research Programme at the Turing.

> She will share the report and committee's recommendations with the line manager of the reporter, 

Author: ```suggestion
She will share the report and committee's recommendations with the line manager of the reportee, 
```

An internal resolution will be agreed upon using the Enforcement Manual, 
taking the following two objectives into account:
1. provide support for the reporter and the person(s) harmed, and
2. plan the continued participation of the reportee as per the Enforcement Manual.

Due to the severity of the incident reports that go beyond norm-setting in *The Turing Way*, an appropriate 
(external) authority such as the reportee's employee/line manager will be identified
who can respond to the incident report with the appropriate action.
The report will be passed to the identified authority with an agreement to receive an update from their enforcement process.

The resolution or decision made by the external authority may or may not have an impact on the internal resolution.

A transparency report will be drafted by the committee and shared with the community where appropriate.

### 4.3 If the breach is considered outside the scope of this Code of Conduct and the reportee is an employee of the Turing

The Code of Conduct should be considered a norm-setting mechanism for all community members, including the Turing employees.

> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
